Tip 5 tweaks (#287)
Benjamin-Lee/deep-rules: content/07.architecture-and-representation.md

## Tip 5: Choose an appropriate data representation and neural network architecture {#architecture}

While certain best practices have been established by the research community [@doi:10.1007/978-3-642-35289-8], architecture design choices remain largely problem-specific and are vastly empirical efforts requiring extensive experimentation.
Furthermore, as deep learning is a quickly evolving field, many recommendations are often short-lived and are frequently replaced by newer insights supported by recent empirical results.
This is further complicated by the fact that many recommendations do not generalize well across different problems and datasets.

> Therefore, unfortunately, choosing how to represent your data and design your architecture is closer to an art than a science.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, unfortunately, choosing how to represent data and design an architecture is closer to an art than a science.
```

> For example, if your dataset is an array of measurements with no natural ordering of inputs (such as gene expression data), multilayer perceptrons (MLPs) may be effective.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if the dataset is an array of measurements with no natural ordering of inputs (such as gene expression data), multilayer perceptrons (MLPs) may be effective.
```

These are the most basic type of neural network, and they are able to learn complex non-linear relationships across the input data despite their relative simplicity.

> Similarly, if your dataset is comprised of images, convolutional neural networks (CNNs) are a good choice because they emphasize local structures and adjacency within the data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly, if the dataset is comprised of images, convolutional neural networks (CNNs) are a good choice because they emphasize local structures and adjacency within the data.
```

CNNs may also be a good choice for learning on sequences, as recent empirical evidence suggests that they can outperform canonical sequence learning techniques such as recurrent neural networks (RNNs) and the closely related long short-term memory (LSTM) networks [@arxiv:1803.01271]. 
Accessible high-level overviews of these different neural network architectures are provided in [@doi:10.1016/j.ymeth.2020.06.016] and [@doi:10.1038/nature14539].

Deep learning models typically benefit from increasing the amount of labeled data with which to train on.
Large amounts of data help to avoid overfitting (see [Tip 7](#overfitting)), and increase the likelihood of achieving top performance on a given task.

> If there is not enough data available to train your model, consider using transfer learning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there is not enough data available to train a well-performing model, consider using transfer learning.
```

In transfer learning, a model whose weights were generated by training on another dataset is used as the starting point for training [@tag:Yosinski2014].
Transfer learning is most useful when the pre-training and target datasets are of similar nature [@tag:Yosinski2014].
For this reason, it is important to search for similar datasets that are already available.
These can potentially be used to increase the size of the training set or for pre-training and subsequent fine-tuning on the target data.
However, even when this assumption does not hold, transferring features can still improve model performance compared with random feature initialization.
For example Rojkomar et al. showed advantages of ImageNet-pretraining [@doi:10.1007/s11263-015-0816-y] for a model that is applied to grayscale medical image classification [@doi:10.1007/s10278-016-9914-9].

> In addition, or as an alternative to pre-training models on larger datasets for transfer learning yourself, you may also be able to obtain pre-trained models from public repositories, such as Kipoi [@doi:10.1101/375345] for genomics models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, or as an alternative to pre-training models on larger datasets for transfer learning, one may be able to obtain pre-trained models from public repositories, such as Kipoi [@doi:10.1101/375345] for genomics models.
```

Moreover, learned features could be helpful even when a pre-training task is different from a target task [@doi:10.1109/CVPRW.2014.131]. 
Recently, the concept of self-supervised learning, which is closely related to pre-training and transfer learning, has seen an increase in popularity [@doi:10.1016/j.micron.2018.01.010]. 

> Self-supervised learning leverages large amounts of unlabeled data and using naturally available information as labels for supervised learning. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Self-supervised learning leverages large amounts of unlabeled data and "uses?" naturally available information as labels for supervised learning. 
```

Author: Thanks! Good catch!

Thus, self-supervised learning is sometimes also described as autonomous supervised learning.
Using self-supervised learning, a model can be pre-trained on a related task before it is trained on the target task.
Another related approach is multi-task learning, which simultaneously trains a network for multiple separate tasks that share features.
In fact, multi-task learning can be used separately or even in combination with transfer learning [@doi:10.1109/TBDATA.2016.2573280].

> This tip can be distilled into two main action points: first, base your network's architecture on your knowledge of the problem and, second, take advantage of similar existing data or pre-trained deep learning models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tip can be distilled into two main action points: first, base the network's architecture on knowledge of the problem and, second, take advantage of similar existing data or pre-trained deep learning models.
```
